Blood can be changed out. The parts it runs through, not always so much. Bad skin, big eyes, long fine nose. Freckles.

Good strong teeth.

Nosebleeds in puddles.

I didn't know what to do with the nosebleeds, though. They just ran and ran, whenever I wanted to run. A cloud of blood all over the pavement. Eventually, it becomes interesting, it becomes a thing you watch. You want to know what's in it, the blood.

You want to know if it's just you, or if it's everyone.

It's not everyone who has this, after all. A staggeringly small number of people, the world over. It's a motivation, the public hurts, the embarrassment, the difficulties in looking people square in the eye. You work at it. You try very hard, when your blood is public.

I might have gotten it from my father. I got a lot of things from my father, I got the hair and the eyes and the pretty white skin, the small lips and the fast sense of humour. The things that go with that. The luck. Something like luck. The invisibility cloak that I needed to become myself. I got the things that poured down off the hill.
And I got put into girl's school, by popular consent.
It was not a great choice. It was about blood. It came from my grandmother, from my mother's mother, but that is a different story, because this is a story about blood

To be blooded is to be sanguine, a phrase that means heavy-faced, ruddy, prone to brutal amusements, which I never was because I was born in the eighties after heroine chic and I was too afraid of needles to ever be cool. Never good with weed - it dried my nose and rotted my lungs and made me paranoid, because fear and blood are tied at the root, a braid that turns to a hydra if you let it. I went wandering with the mythical creatures instead of the drugs, just to start, but the escapism is no different, one way to the other. 




NOSEBLEEDER
A comic about inheritances. 

Page 1 - a closeup of a hand, with lines painted on it. The woman is looking at her hand in the waiting area of pearson airport, where the planes are taking off and landing. She's waiting to go away, obviously - waiting for an escape.

Inheritance is what you get when you come into the world of the waking. 

There are some people who walk behind her, chatting - a wedding, a ring, a small child staring at the girl waiting in the airport. You get it from all the people around you, and you can inherit different things.

Page 1:
Wake up in a wash of blood on the page, staining the pillow. The shadow has the shape of a wolf.
Panel inset, crawling out of bed, into a house.
NARRATOR: Nosebleeds have been my constant companion since adolescence.

Page 2:
Walks past open doors. 
A cloud of hinges are following in her wake.
Panel: Augh and he ASKED ME and it was SO GREAT
Panel: A wedding dress is being tried on
Panel: A series of beautiful ladies on a commuter train
She reaches for a kleenex and stuffs it up her nose.
Behind her, some people run through with a ton of shopping bags.

Page 3:
Girl is in the kitchen, nose stuffed with kleenex. Looks at microwave, which is open, the beverage having hotted up.
GIRL: I think I'm coming unhinged.

Page 4:
The Hinges deliver us to a classroom, with hands up like leaves. A woman in a suit is pointing to the blackboard, which has the latin declention for dog on it. Canis Canem Canaes. Her cane has the head of a wolf, lupus lupi, not to be confused with lupus the disease. Dogs are tame, wolves are not tame. Lupus the sickness.
The Girl is looking at a book.
NARRATOR:  Mum put me in a good school, her mother's school when things were different. A school for witches, mum never attended. She had to teach herself, and I was meant to do better.
Transition of leaf/hands
TEACHER: says something other than words. ?
GIRL: !!
Transition with large splotch of blood, a leaf.
NARRATOR: I was never any good with stress. It always came straight out my nose.

Page 5:
MUSKOKA. Leaves/hinges/butterflies fall across an open sky, a cliff made of a face dark, dark red with water. The water is red, too, and blends with a kayak with the girl in it at the bottom of the page.
NARRATOR: Mum, born in the wasted fifties, got gin blossoms without any liquor. Red came too readily in her nose, a mark of vice she never earned.

Page 6: 
Kayak is pulling up to the rocky shore, under several white pines. Recognizeable sumac and bracken ferns. The waves form cocaine lines on the lake.
NARRATOR: My inheritance is my own generation's shock marks, sudden as cocaine, not slow like booze.

Page 7:
Top Panel: Pulls the kayak up on shore
NARRATOR: Blood carries all sorts of things.
Bottom Panel: Heads into the woods
NARRATOR: Bad ears, bad eyes, bad skin. 
NARRATOR: Good strong teeth, though. 

Page 8:
Walking through the woods.
NARRATOR: Freckles. Long nose. 
NARRATOR: My mother did not want me to walk long in the woods. She was afraid of what I would find there, and warned me not to tarry... 

Page 9: 
Sees three monstrous deer and a fallen, dead-looking wolf in front of a cliff. The cliff retains the shape of a woman's hips under a blanket. There is a cottage watching the action in the background, smoking faintly, with bird legs. It is clearly a witch's house. The legs are cardinal legs, are jay's legs, are crow's legs in turn, because there is no clear mythology, just witches with valerian and aconite in the garden.

NARRATOR: ... afraid of what I might stop to see.


Page 10:
Panel: Fear-face
Panel: Freakish deer-thing "laughing" and staring.
Panel: Determined-to-angry face.
Bottom: Girl from the front, snaps off branch, stares flatly at the deer.
GIRL: "Right then."
GIRL: "Let's DO this."
NARRATOR: I saw more than I really wanted to, and it made me angry.


Page 11:
NARRATOR: The school encouraged me to meet new people.
Panel, top, is the girl taking a swing.
NARRATOR: I never got along with the other girls, not even the nice ones.
Panel behind is the stick thrashing forward, deer flinching back
NARRATOR: "Friends" was not something I was especially good at, coming as I did from the tense domain within the wood.
Middle panel is all the action, the stick connecting, girl pulling it up and smashing across face of animal
NARRATOR:  I was not going to let the forest creatures close enough to take a bite.
Bottom is girl in sword pose, with stick behind her.
NARRATOR: My passage in the woods was a spell cast to buy my way to the middle class, and like all magic, it was bound with sacred limits.


Page 12:
NARRATOR: Limits on how to be friends, for starters.
Girl looks for wolf, but the wolf has gone missing deeper into the woods. There are footprints.
NARRATOR: Restriction is a specific flavour of want.
The Baba Yaga hut is watching. It knows things Girl doesn't, about want, about the deer. It put them there.
Girl, panting visibly in the forest: ... damn.
PANEL INSET: A smart car pulling up to the school.
NARRATOR: I knew the spell was to bring us out of our isolation. I knew I was meant to win.
Bottom-right of the page is crowded with butterflies who turn to hinges
Absolute bottom panel, not more than 2" high, is a scene of a locker room completely covered in blood. Girls are skewed across it. It is tiny but gregariously violent.
On the far right of the panel, Girl walks into the cloud of butterflies.
NARRATOR: But it was hard to see what winning might look like, and it turned out no-one else was playing for keeps.


Page 13:
The top left corner of the page is clustered with hinges and a butterfly.
NARRATOR: How could I win when I didn't know what to want, or how, alone in the woods?
The girl is sitting, distressed, in the hallway to the principal's office.
Panel, inset.
Woman's hand, with a wolf ring, offers a handkerchief as the girl looks up at her.
WOMAN: Fighting again, huh?
Panel: Girl accepts handkerchief.
GIRL: ... It was worth it.

Page 14:
Principal's office. A desk, a principal, a stray hinge fluttering through the room.
PRINCIPAL, who is decorated in deer themes: ... going to have to call your mother.
NARRATOR: At the heart of things was my mother's fluttering fear, bound to a mortar and pestle. An inheritance I never requested, it perfumed the air.
GIRL looks terrified, flatly, blankly terrified.
Nosebleed starts again.
GIRL touches her face.
A fluttering hinge takes us back to the forest.

Page 15
NARRATOR: Out in the world, I was supposed to win, but the rule was a route of return.
The narrator is running through the woods, looking for something, stick in hand.
The rocks form hipbones.
NARRATOR: The right of return.
Girl: Man, where - I know...
She spots some blood and climbs up a rock the shape of a woman on her side, over a fallen tree.
NARRATOR: A rout.
She comes to a clearing, and at the edge of the clearing, smoke.
The clearing turns into one of the bunkies, then the path to the Rosseau cottage, which rests squat on the legs of cardinals.
NARRATOR: I had to go, and go back, even as the world closed behind me each time.

PAGE 16
NARRATOR: The forest was a circle, and to leave, one came back again.
Girl is huffing and looking at the porch of the cottage. The garden of the cottage is very formal, red and white. There is no sign of the wolf anywhere, just red day-lilies and cardinal's legs.
NARRATOR: Arrival at the house of doubts is always a surprise. Mother Doubt has carved her place in the forest.
The exterior of the cottage has a fire, and a mortar and pestle parked nearby.
GIRL blinks at the mortar and pestle and it turns to a smart car, a tree of red berries and a fence of skulls to a magnolia tree.
They refuse to remain that way, even as she is...
Girl is walking up a plain driveway in a plain suburb and it is manifestly cold enough that her breath is still visible. 

Page 16
The cottage is empty. Some shelves have bones on them - a jar for Adam's rib is visible, as are some butterflies pinned down in a case. Tamed neuroses in a box, which does not mean they're safe, next to a pile of hinges. Antlers decorate several surfaces. There is a lamp made from them. This is the house in détente with the deer.
NARRATOR: Just because she's not home... 
The inhabitant is bullishly, stubbornly herself. A witch, not a shapeshifter. Mother Doubt.
NARRATOR: Doesn't mean she isn't present.

She is in charge of the deer. Sometimes they're in charge of her. It is hard to say who directs the relationship, but her place in the forest is assured.
On one wall, there is a photo of a man, captioned Baba. He is ferocious in it, a face carved of rocks, black hair and a widow's peak. He wears a sweater with deer on it in the photo, carries an ax.
NARRATOR: Fear defines its own terms of possibility.
Looks around the kitchen for a coffee mug. Listens for any sign of life.

Page 17
The coffee bubbles, perks, as a butterfly comes to rest on the window.
There is no-one home, and she has been expecting ... someone.
A shadow falls from the back hallway, and the girl lurches into her coffee.
"Never let the turkeys get your goat, dear."

Page 18
There's a witch there, a bandage on her face, which is red as red can be. She's in a chair, her own mug spiralling heat-haze into her face. She's been there all along, she was never there when we started.
The coffee cup is clenched in Girl's hand, hinges around her ears. She's sitting. She was standing, but now she's sitting, and the front window shows a suburb rather than a forest.


Page 19






///////////////////////////////
End -1
She steals the seven-league boots from the front hall, and Adam's Rib, and a wolfskin belt. Her own blood stains the handkerchief, makes it red as winter berries, and she walks out of the cottage.....

Panel: The girl slips on a shirt with a subtle wolf's-head pattern in houndstooth.
Panel: The handkerchief has gotten redder and redder and now is fully red.

End Sequence:

Panel: Girl pulls the fully red handkerchief out of her nose, and it flares out into a full panel background. She wraps it around her face.
Panel: the handkerchief wraps around, flares out.
Panel: Silhouette of the girl's face and a wolf's head in the background
Panel: Girl has turned into a wolf herself, walking back into the woods, with a red bandanna made all of blood around her neck. 
There are many wolves worked into the forest.
NARRATOR: Blood will out.


////////////////////////////////

The cottage is home life, which is destroyed by being a wolf, of course.

The house has chickadees and a jay and a cardinal around it, the legs holding up a shadow of Baba in a picture. A stern man, he has the trace of deer around him. He's an imposing man, stern, beautiful.

"You take after your grandfather. He was always very dapper, with dragon linings in his jackets."

If I let this, this is a story about the impossible tension between raising a girl daughter and letting her go
The wolves eat grandmother. That part is never negotiable. In this case, my grandmother is the WASP traditions that keep me human, keep me from being gay. In this book, though, the only way to imply that is to have the wolf _be_ my mother. In which case, I am quite directly saying that my mother is gay. Which she isn't. She's scared of men. The difference is that I don't care for men, and channel it into being as queer as I can: living in the forest rather than in the world. Although I suppose it could also be that she's an artist, and that's hard, too, and easily stressed. But Mum's a dog, eager to please, where I chose to leave the cottage and join the wolves in winter.


The girl follows the wolf, and discovers that Baba - baba is the name of my grandfather - Baba inhabits the house fully, the pressure to marry immense. The way out is to become a wolf.

The house is my mum's
it covers the need for being socially acceptable to escape from living in a forest made of chicken feet,
but Girl is more comfortable in the woods and is not very good at being socially acceptable,
and the tension between wanting to be a wolf in the woods of sexually suggestive rocks
As versus at Girl's School 
As versus in an office
Yaga has big eyes, big jaws, a clean nose....


But in the case of this story, it's supposed to set Girl free, to be compelled to sexuality - like at the end of Company of Wolves, when she seduces the wolf. 

Is the forest high school and the outside world, or is it where the cottage is? It appears to be the high school to start with, or the office, in which case it makes sense that it's the site of violence. The forest is the site of violence, the home of the deer who eat the wolves, but it is also the site where the wolves can fight back in a pack. Deer are not to be found in groups so fierce as wolves, after all.

If it's the cottage, the cottage should be an apparently secure point, but of course, that's undermined by the spirit of fear. The cottage isn't home because Witch doesn't have any partners there at all. And as her daughter, the Girl is already a wolf: she inherited that wolf-ness from her mother, and then from these women who stepped in to help a puppy versus the deer around her.

There's another sense to the term wolf at the door, and that's poverty. The fear in this is very much about basic needs, about sex versus death versus eating.

///// End notes

The main thrust is being terrified of men, of life, of poverty and the class represented by the queers, of not fitting in with them but being given no choice about it. It's fit in or die a girl, without any desire permitted. Blood will out. I don't do cocaine but my blood wants to be worse than it is, wants to be dissolute and wasted. Sex is basically life: I am going to die anyway, I may as well die having all the fun possible. Being terrified won't save me. So I have to go through the woods, and when I get there, although the smart car is already there - baba yaga - the wolf is, too. The thing I'm afraid of is not what it is, though. I am afraid of the death, of the poverty, but it turns out that the forest is only inedible if you're not part of it. If you're a deer, there's nothing to eat.


What needs to happen in here:
- Gay women and strong women have interceded at each step to let me through.
- But I have been massively uncomfortable with my gayness, which I am implying is also in the blood, along with the arts.
- I'm supposed to save Mum from being common, which I did, but I was myself saved by a series of teachers and very strong women.
- My grandmother, who kept things together, needs to die and be put in the unmarked ground.

NARRATOR: My mother warned me about marriage, repeatedly. She had not been happy in hers, and I had not been happy in it either, but the world outside of it was new in the 1980s, when women were only twenty years in charge of their reproductive systems. The change was tremendous, between her and me. The change was written in many kinds of blood. I knew I was different. She knew that to be different was to die horribly. That I was a girl would not preserve me from the destiny that waited for girls and gays alike, and to be a girl who was also gay was double the entertainment.
